Scripting.txt
--------------

This file describes how to make new enemies and weapons easily, without touching the source code.
For more complex modifications, full source code is also available.

There can be maximum number of 24 enemies, 24 weapons, 24 shot images and 24 particle images.
For all enemies to appear in the game, there must be at least equal amount of weapons, because new enemy type is introduced when new weapon is earned.
For examples, look enemy#.dat files or weapons.dat file.
All of these files are located in the files/ -subfolder.


ENEMIES
For an enemy to appear in the game, two files are needed:
enemy#.png
enemy#.dat
where # is a running identification number.

enemy#.png is the image of the enemy in Portable Network Graphic -format. Preferably 32x32 in size.

enemy#.dat includes the stats and behaviour of the enemy.
It consists of variables and their values, separated with = character.

List of possible variables and their descriptions:

Variable	Default	Description
------------------------------------------
name		""	the name of the enemy
points		10	how many points killing this is worth
damage		50	how much the enemy hurts player when they collide
speed		0	the speed of the enemy in pixels/frame
shields		10	how much damage the enemy can withstand before exploding
homing		0	how quickly enemy turns to face player (degrees/frame, values over 179 mean instantly)
turning		0	how many degrees/frame the enemy is allowed to turn, 0 for instant turns
turningfreq	0	delay in milliseconds when the enemy turns randomly (0 to disable)
rotate		0	how many degrees/frame the enemy rotates its image; doesn't affect moving
trail		0	the index number of particle image to be used for trailing particles, 0 to disable

Those variables that are not used, can be left away; they are assigned as default values.


PARTICLES
These particles are used for making trails and thruster effects for enemies.
They are stored in files named particle#.png, where # is a running id number.
The images are imagestrips with square frames (i.e. width same as height).
The particle can have over 100 frames, but they must all be arranged horizontaly (no frames below others).
In game, the first frame (i.e. the most left) is shown first.


WEAPONS
All weapons are defined in the "weapons.dat" file.
Projectile / shot images are in png format and named shot#.png, where # is a running identification number.
The size is preferably under 8x8 pixels.

The weapons.dat contains the stats of each weapon arranged from first to last.
Every one of the declarations starts with the row:
[weapon]


List of possible variables and their descriptions:

Variable	Default	Description
------------------------------------------
ammotype	1	index number of the ammunition image to use
damage		0	how much damage is inflicted to enemies upon hit
speed		0	how many pixels the shot travels in a frame
range		0	how many pixels the shot can travel
barrels		0	how many shots are fired at once i.e. how many barrels the gun has
arc		0	how wide the shooting arc is, doesn't matter if barrels is set to 1
rearbarrels	0	how many barrels there are pointing backwards
reararc		0	how wide the backwards shooting arc is
points		2000	how many points (in addition to those got beforehand) has to be gathered to get this weapon

-----------
End of File